---
title: You Can Live Like You're Wealthy Now
description: The Things Rich People Do That Are Actually Possible For Normal People, and Why We Should Do Them
date: 2021-05-14
tags:
  - Life-Hacks
  - Personal-Finance
  - Productivity
layout: layouts/post.njk
permalink: /blog/wealth-simulation/
---

Here's a potentially useful exercise:

Ask yourself what you would do if you won a billion dollars in the lottery. _Really_ think about it. Make a super detailed list – brainstorm down to the minute details.

Got it? Good!

Now, go through the list and ask yourself if there's anything on the list you can afford to do _now_, even though you didn't actually win the lottery.

Chances are, there's at least one thing on there that you could see yourself doing if you were rich that, if you stop to think about, you could actually be doing now.

As a personal example, one thing I could see myself doing if I were to win the lottery would be to _throw away or donate all my clothes and replace them with a few really nice pieces that I love and wear often_. Another one would be, _now that I don't have to worry about money, go to the gym every day and really get into good shape_.

The truth is, the only things stopping me from doing both of those things now are (a)&nbsp;scarcity mindset and (b)&nbsp;plain old laziness. These aren't actually money issues; they're mental ones. They just happen to be mental issues that I could see myself being free from if money were no issue.

Actually, if you really stop to think about, doing those things would probably only increase my earning capacity via increased self esteem, energy, etc.

What about you? Yeah, you probably can't go quit your job and buy a yacht tomorrow, but is there anything in your life that you could imagine doing if you were rich but can actually afford to do now?

The ironic thing is that the "rich and successful" life often includes a lot of things that basically _anyone_ can do: eating healthy yet delicious foods, living in minimalism with a few nice things, going on periodic silent retreats (even if that just means going to a local campground for a few nights), working out consistently at a nice gym, drinking high-quality coffee, etc.

It's something to think about, at least.
