---
title: Basecamp's Latest Move Is Pure Genius
description: Arguing for an End to Paternalistic Benefits
date: 2021-05-18
tags:
  - Work
  - Freedom
  - Productivity
layout: layouts/post.njk
permalink: /blog/basecamp/
---
Basecamp’s latest move is pure, unfettered genius. No, I’m not talking about Basecamp’s decision to <a href="https://world.hey.com/dhh/basecamp-s-new-etiquette-regarding-societal-politics-at-work-b44bef69" target="_blank">prohibit political discussions on company time and using company resources</a>. I have nothing valuable to add on that topic that hasn't already been said (and any readers familiar with my <a href="/blog/rules/#rule-2" target="_blank">Rule 2</a> can readily infer where I stand). Instead, I’m talking about Basecamp’s decision to stop making paternalistic financial decisions with portions of their employees' overall compensation packages.

I have been advocating for this very thing privately for many years. Here's the general idea: Instead of paying for things like use-it-or-lose-it childcare subscription packages, health club memberships and roadside assistance services for employees that may or may not have any need or interest in such services, Basecamp will instead pay the appropriate proportional amount in cash to the employees to do with what they will.

The obvious counterargument to this is that individual employees just do not have the same level of bargaining power as a corporation does, such that individuals will on average pay higher per-unit prices than a corporation for the same benefits (let's call this the *a la carte premium*).

Consider, however, that the average employee might only really use one or two of the, say, nine or ten offered goods/services that the corporation pays for in bulk. When you take that into account, it turns out that the aggregate cash payment to the employee will, on average, exceed the amount the employee would actually freely choose to pay for their desired goods/services, despite the a la carte premium.

If the above argument hasn't won you over yet, consider also that employees under the new Basecamp model have more free choice in what goods/services to actually buy. To be sure, having more choices isn’t always desirable (option paralysis is a very real thing). But I’d certainly rather choose my own cell phone provider, fertility counselor or veterinarian network than be stuck with the one my corporation just happens to have a contract with.

Basecamp’s choice here is <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pareto_efficiency" target="_blank">Pareto optimal</a>:
- The employee gets the same (or better) goods/services *plus* the applicable cash delta.
- The employer has a neutral cash outflow *plus* enjoys a material reduction in HR, legal and general admin time spent choosing and negotiating with benefits suppliers *plus* has (potentially) happier, healthier and more productive employees.

This was a win-win all around, even if everyone doesn’t see it yet. I like to think that, over time, obviously good ideas win. And this is an obviously good idea.

Good job, Basecamp.

~*s*
